
I graduated with a Bachelor’s Degree in Exercise Physiology 6 years ago. I originally had the intentions of going to medical school, and decided after graduating that I wanted to start my life. I had an amazing opportunity at to work as a surgical consultant. It was a great experience, but eventually I felt unfulfilled in my career choice. I have always been good with computers in the sense that I knew more then my parents, and definitely more then my grandparents. I was the go to guy for setting up anything even remotely technical in my family. If I could redo my college education knowing what I know today I would never have listened to my freshman advisor that persuaded me away from computer science, but that is in the past, and moving forward is how you learn to succeed.

I worked as a surgical consultant for about 2 years, but half way through I knew that it wasn’t right for me, but being 23 I needed money so worked, and always worked hard. I always had the want to learn to program, but I always thought that because I didn’t have a degree in computer science it would be outside of my wheelhouse, but It didn’t stop me from searching online to see what people said. I eventually found out that it wouldn’t matter as long as I knew the language I was using, and that sealed the deal, right then and there I decided I would learn to program.

The only issue was I had no idea where to start or better yet what language should I invest my time into learning! I did my research to find out what the job markets were for each language, and I picked up a few intro courses on the three languages. Those three languages were Python, Ruby, and Javascript. I audited each language spending about 10 hours to learn the basics, and get a feel for how they worked, and I eventually found the right language for me, Javascript.

At this point I finally knew what I wanted to do, and I even knew the language that I wanted to spend my time learning. The only questions left was the how, I knew only 10 hours worth of a programming language how can I turn 10 hours into a career. I eventually stumbled on Medium, which helped to lay the foundation for all of the amazing resources I found. I started with taking multiple courses on Udemy learning the basics of javascript, and it was not easy. I stumbled multiple times, and became frustrated when I had issues understanding a concept (Prototypal Inheritance for one), but I always found a way to keep moving forward. I honestly don’t think I would have been able to if it wasn’t for the great resources online, such as [www.javascript.info](http://www.javascript.info) for all things javascript. It is an invaluable resource to reference whenever a topic needs a different angle to help you understand. I spent about 6 months on Udemy courses learning javascript, es2015, es2016, nodejs, angularjs, css, html, trying my best to learn frontend practices, and also enough backend to be dangerous. I had a handful of projects, built a portfolio website, but in my mind I didn’t have the validation that I could make it still. I then stumbled onto FreeCodeCamp and that validation was right around the corner.

At this point I was 6 months (5–6 hours each day) into learning how to program so I was already familiar with FreeCodeCamp I just wasn’t sure if I believed what they were touting, but since I had a good foundation I figured it would be the next level so I could have tangible projects to show off. I flew through the front-end certification program since I already had a strong foundation I was just reinforcing what I already knew which is what I needed. I jumped right into the back-end certification and even though it was more difficult I was able to push through and learn how to utilize libraries and modules to help create awesome projects. FreeCodeCamp is a great resource and I would strongly recommend it not only for beginners, but intermediate programmers. I think one of the biggest take aways from FCC is that you are given an objective, and the rope to be as creative as you would like to finish the project, but still needing to meet the objectives that are laid out for you. I was 1 project away from finishing the backend certification and I was offered a full-time position as a full stack developer.

It was a dream come true, and even now I still don’t believe that I was able to break into an amazing field. If you have the motivation to stick out learning to program, and being resilient with the interview process it is worth every minute. I am able to do what I love for a living, and I wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t for all of the amazing resources online such as Udemy, and FreeCodeCamp. This is only part of my journey and I hope that you follow and read about my transition from being self-taught to working full time.